>> Ben Hong: You're gonna create a useWeek
composable, just like I did useTasks.
And to be honest, I would say, especially
when you're first getting used to writing
Composables, just move stuff in.
Don't think too hard about like, is this
utility, like if you have an instinct for
it immediately like cool, like do your
thing, like move it into a utility.
But otherwise, I mean, if it's
related functionality, that's a good.
That's a step in the right direction.
Right.
You can always keep refactoring later on.
And so
I guess I also then give a hint as well.
There's a lot of date time stuff in there
that like formatting dates that's super
repeated in the code base.
So you can make some choices about
how you might want to do that.
So if you want to practice
creating some util functions,
that is there for you as well.
Our goal for this exercise was to
create a useweek composable because
if you had a chance to take a look,
you might have noticed there is a lot
of stuff with the week
happening in the code base.
It's pretty prolific.
And so I think for this particular
composable, I think this is a good point
to demonstrate something that I
didn't get to talk about earlier,
which is the fact that Composables, we
showed the ability with the use tasks that
we were basically exporting some
methods and we were using them.
But the important thing to remember
about composables is they can have
anything in it.
So in other words,
they can also have reactive state.
And so composer composables are not
only a good way to share methods and
functionality, but
also to share state between components.
And it's in a lot of ways
one of the more ideal ones,
which we'll talk about in a bit.
So let's go ahead and
I'm just going to look for.
Let's see this looks.
Let's see.
Let me see if I can find like.
So let's look at the weak moto maybe
is there like we're looking for
maybe a const weeks.
There we go.
Okay, see?
So look, this week's ref is being
used in a lot of different places.
And so what we notice here is that there's
essentially pretty duplicated logic as far
as like loading weak error.
And then more importantly,
you'll notice here that the fetch weeks
here then up updates the value of weeks.
And so
to demonstrate actually what I was saying,
let's actually make this particular
composable real straightforward.
And so I'm going to do is
I'm going to cut this out,
I'm going to drop it inside
of my use weeks composable.
And then we just need to make
sure we import ref from view and
then just to keep the type,
we just need to import type week.
And then there you go,
there's my autocomplete from the types.
And then we just need to export this and
then believe it or not, just like this,
you've now created this reusable piece
of state that we can now go into each
one of these pages and we can actually
just straight up remove them.
And instead of having them there,
we can just import
weeks from our composable use week and,
and that becomes that.
This goes bye bye, this goes here,
this goes gone, that goes there,
that disappears and then last one.
So if you couldn't tell
with this particular one,
this is one of the reasons why some people
have started getting into auto importing.
Because my whole screen is
full of imports at this point.
And that can be a discussion for
another time.
But here what we just did is we took
this thing that we know we want to
share between six different components.
And what's beautiful about the composables
is that it does not care where your
components live in
relation to one another.
All right, props need them to be direct
ancestors, or not even that's right,
props needs to be direct children.
If you do provide inject then
you need to be an ancestor.
Like there's a bunch of caveats
with these, but composables,
it just knows where to go and
it shares it and it's good.
And so this was brought up
earlier at the break and so
this particular pattern is known, we'll
talk a little bit more about this later.
But it's called like a singleton because
it's this one file that's being used and
shared across multiple files.
And that's the reason why it is,
that's why you're able to share state.
And then so
again just we're kind of priming you for.
We will do some exercises
on this in a little bit.
But the alternative, right, if you were to
do something like generate weeks, right?
And then you exported this instead and
you had like cons weeks,
or let's say just to be clear,
newWeeks = refWeek,
like this, okay, you return newWeeks.
If you run this function in every
component, it is going to generate
you a new one every single time because
it's running that function each time.
Again, this is like kind of A sneak
peek into what we will be talking about,
which is these are probably
like the two paradigms you have
to consider when writing Composables.
Another thing that I do want to mention
here as well regarding Composables is that
I mentioned they're called composables,
that we prefix them with views and
then we put them in a folder
called Composables.
But I think what's important to clarify is
that all of that is a chosen convention.
Vue isn't doing anything automagically
that detects the stuff and
then does some magic compilation or
anything.
Now there are libraries that, because
they know Composables are a pattern,
they know that the use prefix is a thing.
You can basically point it and
say, hey, for all my composables,
just auto import them so
that I don't deal with that.
So that's like an example of an auto
magic thing that you could have a plugin
do for you.
But these are all chosen conventions.
You could very well put this composable
inside of the utils folder and
assuming you update the path,
it works exactly the same.
What makes it a composable is the fact
that you're using a ref here from view and
that you're returning something
reactive that will impact the state.
>> Speaker 2: Just so I'm clear.
>> Ben Hong: Yes.
>> Speaker 2: If you import your weeks
into several different components,
either on screen or
in different routes, and
let's say it was a counter and
you incremented it.
>> Ben Hong: Yep.
>> Speaker 2: That value
would be used everywhere.
>> Ben Hong: Correct.
>> Speaker 2: You would increment
it on one component, one route,
and it would be correct.
Reflected on the next page you visit.
>> Ben Hong: Correct,
assuming you're using router link,
cuz I think if you do a full refresh that
then you're dealing with caching things.
And there are easy, actually there's
actually a pretty easy way around that,
which I can demonstrate later.
But yes, to your point,
as long as you're not dealing with
anything being busted cache wise.
Yeah.
It's essentially like a global
store that you can put anywhere
as many times as you want.
To be clear this, I guess I'll do
this real quick, like this one.
That's like the fundamental
premise between them, yep.
And then also for the sake of also
being complete about the exercise,
we're going to just create a quick util
to show what that looks like just so
you can see the difference.
The last one I mentioned
was a date time utils, and
we're not gonna go through the whole
code base that would take a while.
We're just gonna pick something that
I fairly certain will be useful.
And so I think we have like a format date,
for example.
So there's a bunch of stuff.
There's format date, format date range.
I think date range actually was when I was
looking to the code base was the simplest.
So here, format date range,
pretty standard.
You get a start date, an end date,
and then here you have,
let's say here, exactly.
Start date, end date, yep,
locale, date, string.
So all these are identical.
So it is ripe for refactoring.
So let's grab that and
then we'll go to our date time, and
then we'll drop that in export.
It looks like there's
nothing magical about this.
No need to import anything else.
And so now that we have that, we can close
that and we can import it at the top.
Once I get there,
import it was format date range.
There you go, gotta love autocomplete.
And then there you go.
And your utility has now been refactored.
So that's there, that's there.
That's good.
This does not need to be redefined.
So go all the way to the top,
drop that in.
There you go.
This does not need to be
defined here as well.
Voila.
And so just like that, this is
a great example of a date time util.